# foreveralone_analysis
Introduction
Suicide is a global phenomenon. It is the 10th cause of leading death worldwide for all ages and the number of suicide case is increasing globally year by year. Statistic from WHO, there are over 800,000 people committed suicide every year which means there is one suicide case happen in every 40 seconds.
Suicide prevention is big challenge globally and it is crucial by not only raising the awareness in community but also need to provide education towards the causes of suicide and learn to identify the suicide and depressive tendencies. The causes of committed suicide come from many aspects in sociocultural and when experiencing crisis in socioeconomic, family and individually. For example, bad experience in loss and trauma, unemployment, sexual orientation and facing trouble in identification in one’s community. All these is tendency of leading mental illness. 90% suicide cases were caused by mental health disorder. Therefore, advocating mental health becoming important role playing in suicide prevention. Many of suicide prevention service has been set up to prevent and monitor suicide attempts and self-harm tragedy.
Example in Malaysia, helpline counselling service from professional counsellors and doctors has been provided from government and NGO such as Befrienders, Malaysian Mental Health Association (MMHA) and Lifeline association Malaysia.
Life is precious, ask for help because we don’t know you need it.
A study reveals that only 27% of people who committed suicide between 2005 and 2015 had been seeking for mental health counselling. From WHO, people who are suicide attempts are 20 times more frequent than completed suicide. We can stop the people from suicide and we can be identified by some symptom of suicide attempts. 
We are using the survey data set collected by redditor from Kaggle to identify factors of attempting suicide and develop a prediction model on suicide attempts.
The data set contains 469 observation with 19 variables. 
